Clarify what configuration options will be accessible to a user with the "Overall/Manage" permission (#265)
jenkinsci/jep: jep/223/README.adoc

image::Targetted_permission_model.png[Design of the new permission model.]

> Specifically, for an installation of Jenkins v2.207 with the default suggested plugins, the following configuration items would be available to a user with the `Overall/Manage` permission:

Reviewer: This should make it clear that some of these are directly in scope for this JEP (the core stuff), while others are forward-looking and depend on maintainers' agreeing to use the new permission.

* `<JENKINS_URL>/manage`

> ** `Configure System`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** `Configure System` (see next item for details)
```

** `Reload Configuration From Disk`
** `System Information`
** `Load Statistics`
** `Jenkins CLI`
** `About Jenkins`

> ** `Manage Old Data`

Reviewer: Still disagree with this, same feedback as I previously provided out of band: If Manage doesn't imply global Job/Read, this will provide information about jobs and builds, and some parts of their configuration.

Author: right, i am looking at that this morning and will probably remove this

** `Prepare For Shutdown`
* `<JENKINS_URL>/configure`
** `Home Directory` (_read only_)
** `System Message`
** `Quiet Period`
** `SCM checkout retry count`
** `Restrict project naming`
** `Pipeline Default Speed/Durability Level`
** `Enable Anonymous Usage Statistics`

> ** `Enable BuildStep Action`

Reviewer: Pretty sure this is contributed by a plugin, specifically build-timeout, and makes little sense to readers without stating it explicitly.

> ** `Git plugin global config`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** `Git plugin global config` (Git Plugin)
```

> ** `Subversion global config`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** `Subversion global config` (Subversion Plugin)
```

> ** `Extended E-mail Notification`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** `Extended E-mail Notification` (Email Extension Plugin)
```

> ** 'Basic E-mail Notificaiton`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** 'Basic E-mail Notificaiton` (Mailer Plugin)
```

Jenkins configuration settings that will continue to require the "Overall/Administer" permission are:

> Most configuration links are fully available for users with either permission, with the following exceptions:

Reviewer: Redundant with the line above.

> * *Administrative Monitors* - Administrative Monitor messages will only be shown if the user has the permission `Jenkins.ADMINISTER` because they may contain an action button that can lead to security modifications. 

Reviewer: By default, unless requiring a lesser permission to use.

* *Configure Global Security* - A user who can make changes here is able to configure Jenkins to use a less secure realm, or grant themselves additional permissions; thus, this configuration link will only be shown to users with the `Jenkins.ADMINISTER` permission.

* *Manage Plugins* - A user with the ability to manage plugins is able to remove or replace security related plugins, or even upload a malicious plugin; thus, this configuration link will only be shown to users with the `Jenkins.ADMINISTER` permission.

* *Manage Users* - Managing users includes the ability to delete any user, so this link will only be shown to users with the `Jenkins.ADMINISTER` permission.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

This is list not exhaustive, other items might be limited to users with `Jenkins.ADMINISTER` permission for similar reasons.
```

Pretty sure there's In-Process Script Approval here somewhere too.

* *Manage Plugins* - A user with the ability to manage plugins is able to remove or replace security related plugins, or even upload a malicious plugin; thus, this configuration link will only be shown to users with the `Jenkins.ADMINISTER` permission.

* *Manage Users* - Managing users includes the ability to delete any user, so this link will only be shown to users with the `Jenkins.ADMINISTER` permission.

* *About Jenkins - Installed Plugin Depenencies* - Although the `About Jenkins` link is accessible to users with the `Jenkins.MANAGE` permission, we have made the decision to not display the list of installed plugins and their dependencies if the user lacks `Jenkins.ADMINISTER` permissions.  
This list includes a link for each plugin that takes the user to the plugin management url, and there is no simple way to ensure that all plugins can expose links such as `http://<jenkins_url>/pluginManager/plugin/<plugin>>/thirdPartyLicenses` to a user with only `Jenkins.MANAGE`.

This is list not exhaustive, other items might be limited to users with `Jenkins.ADMINISTER` permission for similar reasons.

=== Jenkins UX Changes

> Changing the permission model primarily impacts the Jenkins UX in two ways- the permissions shown when configuring matrix-based authentication and what a user who has the "Overall/Manage" permssion can access via the `Manage Jenkins` page. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Changing the permission model primarily impacts the Jenkins UX in two ways- the permissions shown when configuring matrix-based authentication and what a user with "Overall/Manage" permission can access via the `Manage Jenkins` page. 
```

> image::mange_permission_matrix_auth.png[Permissions configuration with matrix authorization plugin.]

Reviewer: Typo in the file name.

```suggestion
image::manage_permission_matrix_auth.png[Permissions configuration with matrix authorization plugin.]
```

* *Manage Users* - Managing users includes the ability to delete any user, so this link will only be shown to users with the `Jenkins.ADMINISTER` permission.

* *About Jenkins - Installed Plugin Depenencies* - Although the `About Jenkins` link is accessible to users with the `Jenkins.MANAGE` permission, we have made the decision to not display the list of installed plugins and their dependencies if the user lacks `Jenkins.ADMINISTER` permissions.  

> This list includes a link for each plugin that takes the user to the plugin management url, and there is no simple way to ensure that all plugins can expose links such as `http://<jenkins_url>/pluginManager/plugin/<plugin>>/thirdPartyLicenses` to a user with only `Jenkins.MANAGE`.

Reviewer: The better solution IMO would be to not show these links to Jenkins.MANAGE users, or perhaps host the content in a different object they have access to. <10 lines of code I think.

Author: @daniel-beck  - not entirely sure i understand what you are proposing 

> The better solution IMO would be to not show these links to Jenkins.MANAGE users

Did you mean we should show the list of installed plugins, but hide the links in that list that the user does not have access to?  That should be easy to do, but i'd also be happy if you have a simple prototype of how we can show them the actual dependency info in a safe way.

Author: Without having the links to view license and dependency information that section provides little value other than a list of installed plugins (which is confusing unless we also change the heading shown to a user with only `Jenkins.MANAGE` permission)

Reviewer: Change the link in `AboutJenkins/index.jelly` to `${rootURL}/plugin/${p.shortName}/wrapper/thirdPartyLicenses`, and change `thirdPartyLicenses.jelly` to only require `app.MANAGE` permission and it should work.

That bypasses a permission check in `/pluginManager/`, but the object itself checks permissions individually on everything anyway.

Author: ok thanks!

Author: Addressed in code by https://github.com/aHenryJard/jenkins/pull/7

Will update the jep language to reflect the change

Plugins may also need to change permissions on jelly files to allow `Jenkins.MANAGE` on management links.

> ```java

Reviewer 2: this isn't java
```suggestion
```xml
```

> <j:if test="${h.hasPermission(app.ADMINISTER)}">

Reviewer 2: simpler
```suggestion
<l:hasPermission permission="${app.ADMINISTER}">
```

    //jelly code that should only be shown to a user with Jenkins.ADMINISTER permission
    ....
    ....

> </j:if>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
</l:hasPermission>
```
